# Running AgentEval Related Scripts

## Step 1. Generating Synthetic Benchmarks 

These steps are common to all synthetic data generation methods:
1. Run structbench_syndata `create_syn.py` with the desired hyperparams, the results will be saved to a directory.
2. Run structbench_syndata `collect_orig_syn_fps.py`, pass the results dirpath from the previous step. This will save a CSV file with the orig and syn data filepaths to a CSV file.
3. Run `format_syn_data_to_bfcl.py`, pass the path to the CSV file from the previous step. This will save the synthetic instructions to bfcl_eval/data, and the synthetic tool calls to bfcl_eval/data/possible_answer.

After running these steps, refer to the generation method's subsection below for the next steps.

### Oversample

Oversampling hyperparams: 
- "oversample_frac0_1"
- "oversample_frac0_3"
- "oversample_frac0_5"
- "oversample_frac0_7"
- "oversample_frac0_9"
- "oversample_frac0"
- "oversample_frac1"

Synthetic instructions are in bfcl_eval/data and synthetic tool calls are in bfcl_eval/data/possible_answer.

Order of running scripts: 
1. run_oversample_fmt_for_sb.sh: Format the oversample synthetic instructions and tool calls for structbench evaluation. This will merge the instructions and tool calls into one CSV file with columns = ID, Data, Tool Calls.

### Fewshot (Fixed)

Fewshot (fixed) hyperparams:
- "fewshot_fixed_ex0"
- "fewshot_fixed_ex1"
- "fewshot_fixed_ex3"
- "fewshot_fixed_ex5"

Synthetic instructions are in bfcl_eval/data.

Synthetic tool calls need to be generated using LLaMa3.1:
1. Copy the dummy tool calls generated by structbench_syndata to the bfcl_eval/data/possible_answer directory. This is needed for the next step.
2. run_fewshot_fixed_create_syn_tc.sh: Run BFCL generate and evaluate to create the synthetic tool calls. 
3. Save the synthetic tool calls to bfcl_eval/data/possible_answer with the right filenames (i.e. overwrite the dummy files)

Once the synthetic tool calls are in bfcl_eval/data/possible_answer, order of running scripts:
1. run_fewshot_fixed_fmt_for_sb.sh: Format the fewshot_fixed synthetic instructions and tool calls for structbench evaluation. This will merge the instructions and tool calls into one CSV file with columns = ID, Data, Tool Calls.

### Fewshot (Random)

Fewshot (random) hyperparams:
- "fewshot_rand_ex0"
- "fewshot_rand_ex1"
- "fewshot_rand_ex3"
- "fewshot_rand_ex5"

Same process as fewshot fixed.

### Blankfilling

Blankfilling hyperparams:
- "blankfill_prob0_1"
- "blankfill_prob0_3"
- "blankfill_prob0_5"
- "blankfill_prob0_7"
- "blankfill_prob0_9"

Same process as fewshot fixed.

### Dropmin

Dropmin hyperparams:
- dropmin_0secondary_api_frac0_3
- dropmin_1secondary_api_frac0_3
- dropmin_2secondary_api_frac0_3
- dropmin_3secondary_api_frac0_3

Synthetic instructions are in bfcl_eval/data and synthetic tool calls are in bfcl_eval/data/possible_answer.

Order of running scripts: 
1. run_dropmin_fmt_for_sb.sh: Format the dropmin synthetic instructions and tool calls for structbench evaluation. This will merge the instructions and tool calls into one CSV file with columns = ID, Data, Tool Calls.

### Invalidate 

Invalidate hyperparams:
- invalidate_frac0
- invalidate_frac0_1
- invalidate_frac0_2
- invalidate_frac0_3
- invalidate_frac0_4
- invalidate_frac0_5
- invalidate_frac0_6
- invalidate_frac0_7
- invalidate_frac0_8
- invalidate_frac0_9
- invalidate_frac1


Synthetic instructions are in bfcl_eval/data and synthetic tool calls are in bfcl_eval/data/possible_answer.

Order of running scripts: 
1. run_invalidate_fmt_for_sb.sh: Format the invalidate synthetic instructions and tool calls for structbench evaluation. This will merge the instructions and tool calls into one CSV file with columns = ID, Data, Tool Calls.

## Step 2. Downstream Evaluation

For fewshot (fixed, random) and blankfilling, save the Step 1 LLaMa3.1-8b-Instruct files in the result folder with different names. 
I prepended "old_" to the result files. 

Then, run the run_model_on_all_benchmarks.sh script with the following models: 
1. ./run_model_on_all_benchmarks.sh meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
2. ./run_model_on_all_benchmarks.sh google/gemma-3-1b-it
3. ./run_model_on_all_benchmarks.sh Qwen/Qwen3-4B-Instruct-2507

This will run each model on the synthetic benchmark and save the LLM under test's generated data to result and score.

Since BFCL already computes a score, our system can use this for computing the ranking metrics. 
The collect_model_scores.py script will read the score/ directory and save the BFCL scores into a CSV file. 
This file has the following columns: model, test_category, accuracy, correct_count, total_count.

To run LLM-as-a-judge evaluation, we need to format the LLM under test's generated data in the structbench format (Id, Data, Tool Calls). 
Run the run_format_model_all_gen_to_sb.sh helper script to do this. The formatted data will be saved in data_for_llm_judge/.

Then, run the run_llm_judge_model_all_gen.sh script that calls llm_judge.py. This python script:
1. Takes the model name and the benchmark test category
2. Loads the benchmark and the generated results
3. Checks if the generated results are correct using an LLM(instructions, expected tool calls, generated tool calls)
4. Each sample gets a "yes" or a "no"
5. The final dataframe is saved in data_for_llm_judge/ with a `_judged` suffix in the filename.